{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f2\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red17\green85\blue204;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\listtable 
{\list\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}\listid1 }}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mnaryLim0\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f0\fs22 May 22, 2023,\par
\par
Steps for inserting a model simulation within a LibreTexts page. These instructions are for use with MiniSidewinder simulator ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 ). \par
\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f0 1.\tab}\ls1\widctlpar\fi-360\li1080\sl276\slmult1\tx360\tx1080 Generate an SBML (sbml.org) formatted model. \super\b *\b0  \nosupersub VCell, Tellurium, COPASI can generate SBML models.\par
{\listtext\f0 2.\tab}Upload the SBML model file to LibreTexts.\par
{\listtext\f0 3.\tab}Fill out the simulation details within the template (miniSidewinderLibreTextsTemplate.html). Here is the list of info you will need to fill out:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f0 a.\tab}\ls1\ilvl1\widctlpar\fi-360\li1800\sl276\slmult1\tx1080\tx1800\f1\fs16 modelURL = '{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://bio.libretexts.org/@api/deki/files/12345/modelFileName.xml }}{\fldrslt{https://bio.libretexts.org/@api/deki/files/12345/modelFileName.xml\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs16 '\f0\fs20   Location of SBML model file on LibreTexts.\par
{\listtext\f0 b.\tab}\f1\fs18 newRT = '10';\f0\fs20   Length of run in model time units.\par
{\listtext\f0 c.\tab}\f1\fs18 newSS = '0.10';\f0\fs20   Integrator step size, total pts = newRt/newSS, 100 points: (10/0.10)\par
{\listtext\f0 d.\tab}\f1\fs18 staticRun = 'true';\f0\fs20  Display after all calculations are done. If \lquote false\rquote  then simulation plots each point as it\rquote s calculated, continuously panning to the right and does not end until the user stops it.\par
{\listtext\f0 e.\tab}\f1\fs18 sliders = 'k1, p_3, comp1, sp1';\f0\fs20  Parameter and species sliders, exact id match, 12 maximum. Empty: \lquote  \lquote  for first 8 params and first 4 species of model (default). \par
{\listtext\f0 f.\tab}\f1\fs18 spPlot = 'S1, deS2, Oxy2'\f0\fs20 ;  Species to plot, exact id match, empty: ' ' for first 8 species (default).\par
{\listtext\f0 g.\tab}\f1\fs18 yLabel = 'conc (uM)';\f0\fs20  y axis plot label, displayed at bottom as: \lquote yLabel vs. xLabel\rquote\par
{\listtext\f0 h.\tab}\f1\fs18 xLabel = 'sec';      \f0\fs20  x axis plot label.\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f0 4.\tab}\ls1\widctlpar\fi-360\li1080\sl276\slmult1\tx360\tx1080\fs22 If you have only one model simulation on a page, then you can skip this step. To have the ability to add many different model simulations to each page, each simulation call has to be unique. This requires you to rename all of the labels that have \lquote ModelName\rquote  in them to \lquote YourModelName\rquote . See example template at end of document.\par
{\listtext\f0 5.\tab}Insert the filled in simulation template into your LibreTexts page where appropriate.\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl276\slmult1\par
Questions: Please email Bart Jardine (barthj@uw.edu).\par
\par
\par
Notes:\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li1080\sl276\slmult1\tx360\tx1080\b SBML support\b0 : Currently (May, 2023) the simulator does not support the SBML \lquote event\rquote  and \lquote piecewise\rquote  keywords or a chemical reaction that takes place in two compartments. Each reaction must take place in one compartment. Support for these two keywords and multicompartment reactions are anticipated shortly ( < 6 months). \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b Bugs: \b0 Bugs or questionable behavior in the simulator can be submitted to our issues tracker on Github: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul https}}}}{\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul ://}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul github}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul .}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul com}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul /}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul sys}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul -}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul bio}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul /}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul miniSidewinder}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul /}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/sys-bio/miniSidewinder/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul issues}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  .\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\b Feature requests\b0 : We are open to adding features, please email us with requests and we can further discuss scope and timeline of request.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}\par

\pard\widctlpar\li720\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl276\slmult1\par
* Software that supports SBML model creation:\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li1080\sl276\slmult1\tx360\tx1080 VCELL: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul VCell}}}}{\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul - }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Modeling}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  & }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Analysis}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Software}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  \endash  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Virtual}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Cell}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Modeling}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  & }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Analysis}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vcell.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Software}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Tellurium: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul Welcome}}}}{\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul to}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul tellurium}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul\rquote }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul s}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul documentation}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul ! \emdash  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul tellurium}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul  2.2.3 }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tellurium.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul documentation}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs22  \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}COPASI: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://copasi.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf3\ul COPASI}}}}\f0\fs22  \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}There are others if you google \lquote SBML simulator\rquote\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl276\slmult1  \par
\par
\b Example template filled out\b0 : If more than one simulation on a page then each simulation call must be unique. For this example, all instances of \b\i\f2  ModelName\b0\i0\f0  have been replaced with \b\i\f2 OxyRedox\b0\i0\f0 . Also, simulations parameters that are to be filled in are in \cf4 red\cf1 :\par
\par
\f2\fs18 <!--  Template for calling Simulator with model -->\par
<!--  Place in webpage where appropriate        -->\par
\f0\fs22  \f2\fs18 <script type="text/javascript">\par
 async function run\b\i\fs20 OxyRedox\b0\i0\fs18 (newFrame) \{ // Replace 'runModelName' with 'runYourModelName'\par
// ******************************************\par
// **** Simulation info to fill out: ********\par
  const \cf4\b modelURL\cf1\b0  = '{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://bio.libretexts.org/@api/deki/files/12345/Model2001_OxyRedox.xml?origin=mt-web }}{\fldrslt{https://bio.libretexts.org/@api/deki/files/12345/Model2001_OxyRedox.xml?origin=mt-web\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs18 '; // Location of sbml model file on libreTexts\par
  const \cf4\b newRT\cf1\b0  = '10';       // Length of run in model time units\par
  const \cf4\b newSS\cf1\b0  = '0.10';     // integrator step size, total pts = newRt/newSS, 100 points: (10/0.10)\par
  const \cf4\b staticRun\cf1\b0  = 'true'; // Display after all calculations are done.\par
  const \cf4\b sliders\cf1\b0  = ' ';    // Parameter and species sliders (12 max), exact id match, '' for first up to 8 params and 4 species of model (default).\par
  const \cf4\b spPlot\cf1\b0  = 'S1, deS2, Oxy2';    // Species to plot, exact id match, ' ' for first up to 8 species.\par
  const \cf4\b yLabel\cf1\b0  = 'conc (uM)'; // Plot label, displayed at bottom as: yLabel vs. xLabel\par
  const \cf4\b xLabel\cf1\b0  = 'sec';\par
// *** END of Simulation info to fill out ***\par
// ******************************************\par
//\par
// Simulator location (adjust as needed):\par
   const simURL = "{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://sys-bio.github.io/miniSidewinder/libretexts/libreTextsLoadSim.html }}{\fldrslt{https://sys-bio.github.io/miniSidewinder/libretexts/libreTextsLoadSim.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f2\fs18 ";\par
// ******************************************\par
   const btnName = 'btn' + newFrame;\par
   document.getElementById(btnName).disabled = true;\par
   try \{\par
      para = new URLSearchParams();\par
\tab   para.append('m_URL', modelURL);\par
\tab   para.append('m_RT', newRT);\par
\tab   para.append('m_SS', newSS);\par
\tab   para.append('m_static', staticRun);\par
\tab   para.append('m_species', spPlot);\par
\tab   para.append('m_pars', sliders);\par
\tab   para.append('m_yLabel', yLabel);\par
\tab   para.append('m_xLabel', xLabel);\par
\tab   // Note: URL + Param search string char limit ~ 2k\par
      try \{ document.getElementById(newFrame).src = simURL + '?' + para.toString(); \} // Sim page to put in iFrame.\par
\tab   catch(err) \{ let errMsg = 'newFrame: ' + newFrame + ', does not match iframe id! ' + err; alert(errMsg); \}\par
\tab\}\par
\tab catch(err) \{ console.log('Issue setting simulation parameters: ', err); \}\par
  return;\par
 \} \par
 </script>\par
 \par
<!-- *************************************************************************************************************** -->\par
<!-- HTML code below: 'button' to launch simulator, 'section' to label it interactive, and 'iframe' to hold simulator page -->\par
<!-- Replace all 'ModelName' labels with yourModelName (no spaces).  -->\par
<p><input id="btn\b\i\fs20 OxyRedox\b0\i0\fs18 " onclick="run\b\i\fs20 OxyRedox\b0\i0\fs18 ('\b\i\fs20 OxyRedox\b0\i0\fs18 ');" type="button" value="Load \b\i\fs20 OxyRedox \b0\i0\fs18 Model" /></p>\par
<section class="box-interactive">\par
<h5 class="box-legend"><span class="lt-icon-default">Interactive Element</span></h5>\par
<p class="mt-align-center"><iframe align="middle" height="600px" id="\b\i\fs20 OxyRedox\b0\i0\fs18 " width="80%"></iframe></p>\par
</section>\par
\par
<!-- **** END of Simulator Template *** -->\par
\f0\fs22\par
}
 